=head1 NAME

Karma - Win32 Specific Instructions

=for html <body bgcolor="#3399cc">

=head1 DESCRIPTION

From the reports I've received, karma does indeed run under various
Windows platforms.  Unfortunately, up to this point, I have not
had a windows box on which to do development, so there are some 
limitations.  In particular, karmactl does not work well, as
it relies on the unix fork() facility, as well as named pipes
for status information, and process signals such as INT, KILL, 
HUP, USR1, and USR2.  In addition, I have not heard reports
pro or con about karmagentd, so if you find it works, email me
with more info, so I can add it to this document.

=head1 GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

I've made sufficient modifications to karmad so that it checks
to see if it's running on a win32 platform.  If it is, it will 
*NOT* try to fork.  To start it do the following:

C<perl karmad -c karma.conf>

To get help do this:

C<perl karmad -h>

I need feedback to make it work better.  If you find something
could be done better, by all means email me.  If you wanna send
a patch to fix something, EVEN BETTER.

=head1 FUTURE DIRECTIONS

I'd like to have karma running with all it's features and tested
for solid stability.  I'd in addition like it to run in a native
way, for instance as a service, the Win32 equivalent of a unix
background process.  

However, I'm no Win32 expert.  If you like doing Perl development
on Win32, and are interested in Karma, let me know.  Perhaps you
can help with the port and testing.

=cut


