=head1 NAME

Karma - Readme

=for html <body bgcolor="#3399cc">

=head1 DESCRIPTION

To get started with karma, first edit a config file.  For starters,
use the basic.conf file.  Edit it for the databases you'd like to
connect to.

Next set the $KARMA_HOME environment variable.  This specifies where
karma will look for the karma.conf file (otherwise it will look
in the current directory).  Also, karma will store the .karma.pid,
and .karmafifo files here.

Next start karmad running.  You can use the -h option for help, or
just start it like this:

=over 4

=item
C<$ bin/karmactl -s>

=back

=head1 karmactl

start, stop, and query a running karmad daemon.  use -h option for help

=head1 karmad

main karma utility.  You probably won't run this directly.

=head1 karma.pm

common code for karmad, karmactl, and karmagentd.

=head1 karmagentd

Run this on each target machine for which you want to monitor the
alert.log and OS stats.

=head1 basic.conf

This is the simplest of karma config files.  Edit it to get started.

=head1 prefgroups.conf

This config file demonstrates how to use preference groups with karma.

=head1 karma.conf

A well documented fully featured karma config file.

=head1 doc_root/images

images needed by the html files

=head1 doc_root/help

directory containing static html help files

=head1 doc_root/info

directory which will contain more info files, giving information
about the particular statistic, and it's status.

=head1 doc_root/docs

Online html documentation for karma.

=head1 sql/karma_user.sql

auxillary sql script for creating a special read-only "karma"
user to run the tool as.  

=head1 sql/karma_objs.sql

auxillary sql script for creating additional objects
KARMA_ALERTLOG_ERRORS, and KARMA_OS_STATS for collecting info
on the database server

=head1 doc_root

This is the document root where your html files will be generated.
If you're going to use karma with a webserver, put this in your 
web doc_root, perhaps naming it karma.  Use the -k option to
karmactl to specify it's location.


=cut

